# Calculator by SpicyPark
Version 3.0.0 is in alpha testing! Head to https://github.com/SpicyPark/Calculator/releases to try it out.
## What's coming in Second Gen
Starting with version 3.0.0, the second generation of this calculator will revolutionize the user experience in all functions. All five first gen modes (Arithmetic, Graphing, Conversion, Derivative, and Random) are expected to be implemented either in v3.0.0 or later updates. The most significant part of second gen is the graphical user interface it introduces. Instead of requiring users to download an IDE, one may simply download an executable file and run it straight from their desktop (more information on this later). Additionally, the Arithmetic mode is receiving a major rehaul. As one may recall, first gen Arithmetic mode relied on the user to input various values such as the number of terms or what operation to run. Second gen introduces a much smarter calculator which takes any arithmetic equation with all four operators and calculates accordingly, accounting for order of operations and without the need for numerous user inputs. The Graphing mode will obviously look better with second gen as it is not being displayed on a 2D array of symbols, and will be able to graph almost any polynomial function as well as trigonometric functions. The expected release date of v3.0.0 has been bumped up from the original summer 2024, however a solid release date has not been confirmed. There will be several alpha phases where first gen features are migrated into second gen, followed by any necessary beta phases, which will ultimately lead the way for full release.
## Overview (First Gen)
This calculator has five implemented modes: Arithmetic, Graphing, Conversion, Derivative, and Random. The Arithmetic mode has functions such as adding, subtracting, multiplying, dividing, and various circle and sphere calculations. The Graphing mode can graph four types of functions: linear, quadratic, cubic, and exponential. The Conversion mode can calculate six different conversions, each with a metric to imperial or imperial to metric option. The Derivative mode can solve fifteen different simple derivatives. The all-new Random mode has three useful applications: it can generate a random number with bounds specified by the user, shuffle a user inputted list, and flip a coin an amount of times specified by the user.

**The first gen calculator will no longer be maintained following the release of v3.0.0.**<br>
For more information and the changelog visit the wiki.<br>
https://github.com/SpicyPark/Calculator/wiki

## How to use this program (Second Gen)
Coming soon
